TODO-architecture.md, before:

# Architecture Improvements

Tracked improvements to establish clearer boundaries between layers and components.

## Priority 1: Critical

### Extract DatabaseService from `libraryStore.loadDatabase()`

**File**: `frontend/src/store/libraryStore.ts`

The `loadDatabase()` method is 116 lines mixing 6+ concerns:
- State management
- SQL.js initialization
- Cache orchestration
- API coordination
- Validation logic
- Error recovery with retry

**Solution**: Extract into separate services:
- `DatabaseInitializer` - SQL.js setup
- `CacheManager` - cache operations
- `DatabaseValidator` - validation logic

Keep `loadDatabase()` as a thin orchestrator that delegates to these services.

---

### Create unified CoverService

**Files**: `frontend/src/hooks/useCovers.ts`, `frontend/src/components/books/BookModal.tsx`

Cover fetching logic is duplicated:
- `useCovers` hook: cache check → batch fetch (25 items) → save
- `BookModal`: cache check → single fetch → save (no batching)

**Solution**: Create `frontend/src/lib/coverService.ts`:
```typescript
class CoverService {
  async getCovers(paths: string[]): Promise<Map<string, string>>
  async getCover(path: string): Promise<string | null>
}
```
- Handles caching internally
- Batches requests automatically
- Single source of truth for cover logic

---

### Create QueryService for database queries

**Files**: `frontend/src/components/books/Library.tsx`, `frontend/src/components/books/BookModal.tsx`

Components call SQL functions directly with inline timing/error handling:
```typescript
// Library.tsx
const startTime = performance.now();
const result = searchBooks(db, ...);
const queryTime = performance.now() - startTime;
```

**Solution**: Create `frontend/src/lib/queryService.ts`:
```typescript
class QueryService {
  getBooks(page, perPage): Promise<BooksResult>
  searchBooks(term, page, perPage): Promise<BooksResult>
  getBookDetail(id): Promise<BookDetail>
}
```
- Encapsulates timing/metrics
- Consistent error handling
- Single place for query optimization

---

## Priority 2: Design Issues

### Hide store internals behind action methods

**Files**: Multiple components directly access store fields

Current pattern (tight coupling):
```typescript
const { db, searchTerm, setSearchTerm, resetLibrary } = useLibraryStore();
```

Components depend on store shape. If store structure changes, all components break.

**Solution**: Expose query methods instead of fields:
```typescript
// Instead of exposing `db` field
useLibraryStore.getState().executeQuery(...)

// Instead of exposing `searchTerm` + `setSearchTerm`
const searchTerm = useLibraryStore(state => state.searchTerm);
const updateSearch = useLibraryStore(state => state.actions.updateSearch);
```

Consider splitting into multiple stores or using selectors.

---

### Unify error handling patterns

**Files**: Throughout frontend

Current inconsistency:
- `SetupForm`: calls `store.setError()`
- `DownloadButton`: catches and calls `store.setError()`
- `BookModal`: silently swallows cover fetch errors
- Various: `console.error()` only

**Solution**:
1. Create error handling strategy (which errors show to users vs log only)
2. Create `ErrorService` or use React Error Boundary
3. Document pattern in AGENTS.md

---

### Extract path normalization utility

**Files**: `app.py` (3 places), `dropbox_api.py` (1 place)

Same logic repeated 4 times:
```python
if not library_path.startswith("/"):
    library_path = "/" + library_path
library_path = library_path.rstrip("/")
```

**Solution**: Add to `dropbox_api.py`:
```python
def normalize_library_path(path: str) -> str:
    """Ensure path starts with / and has no trailing slash."""
    if not path.startswith("/"):
        path = "/" + path
    return path.rstrip("/")
```

---

## Priority 3: Code Quality

### Create OfflineService for network status

**Files**: Multiple `navigator.onLine` checks scattered

**Solution**: Create service that:
- Tracks online/offline status
- Emits events on status change
- Provides consistent offline handling

---

### Add type safety for library path

**Files**: Throughout - `libraryPath` is a plain string everywhere

**Solution**: Consider branded type or wrapper:
```typescript
type LibraryPath = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
function createLibraryPath(path: string): LibraryPath;
```

Low priority - current approach works, just less type-safe.

---

### Consolidate pagination logic

**Files**: `libraryStore.ts`, `Library.tsx`, `lib/sql.ts`

Pagination spread across:
- Store: `currentPage`, `perPage`
- Component: `totalPages` calculation
- SQL: pagination in query

**Solution**: Create pagination utility or keep in one place.

---

## Completed

_Move items here when done_

---

## Notes

- Backend architecture (app.py ↔ dropbox_api.py) is already well-separated
- Frontend folder structure is good; issues are in data flow and responsibilities
- AGENTS.md covers practical development tasks well
- This document tracks structural improvements, not feature work

Commit message:

Extract normalize_library_path utility to reduce duplication
Add normalize_library_path() function to dropbox_api.py and replace
5 instances of duplicated path normalization logic across app.py and
dropbox_api.py with calls to this function.

TODO-architecture.md, after:

# Architecture Improvements

Tracked improvements to establish clearer boundaries between layers and components.

## Priority 1: Critical

### Extract DatabaseService from `libraryStore.loadDatabase()`

**File**: `frontend/src/store/libraryStore.ts`

The `loadDatabase()` method is 116 lines mixing 6+ concerns:
- State management
- SQL.js initialization
- Cache orchestration
- API coordination
- Validation logic
- Error recovery with retry

**Solution**: Extract into separate services:
- `DatabaseInitializer` - SQL.js setup
- `CacheManager` - cache operations
- `DatabaseValidator` - validation logic

Keep `loadDatabase()` as a thin orchestrator that delegates to these services.

---

### Create unified CoverService

**Files**: `frontend/src/hooks/useCovers.ts`, `frontend/src/components/books/BookModal.tsx`

Cover fetching logic is duplicated:
- `useCovers` hook: cache check → batch fetch (25 items) → save
- `BookModal`: cache check → single fetch → save (no batching)

**Solution**: Create `frontend/src/lib/coverService.ts`:
```typescript
class CoverService {
  async getCovers(paths: string[]): Promise<Map<string, string>>
  async getCover(path: string): Promise<string | null>
}
```
- Handles caching internally
- Batches requests automatically
- Single source of truth for cover logic

---

### Create QueryService for database queries

**Files**: `frontend/src/components/books/Library.tsx`, `frontend/src/components/books/BookModal.tsx`

Components call SQL functions directly with inline timing/error handling:
```typescript
// Library.tsx
const startTime = performance.now();
const result = searchBooks(db, ...);
const queryTime = performance.now() - startTime;
```

**Solution**: Create `frontend/src/lib/queryService.ts`:
```typescript
class QueryService {
  getBooks(page, perPage): Promise<BooksResult>
  searchBooks(term, page, perPage): Promise<BooksResult>
  getBookDetail(id): Promise<BookDetail>
}
```
- Encapsulates timing/metrics
- Consistent error handling
- Single place for query optimization

---

## Priority 2: Design Issues

### Hide store internals behind action methods

**Files**: Multiple components directly access store fields

Current pattern (tight coupling):
```typescript
const { db, searchTerm, setSearchTerm, resetLibrary } = useLibraryStore();
```

Components depend on store shape. If store structure changes, all components break.

**Solution**: Expose query methods instead of fields:
```typescript
// Instead of exposing `db` field
useLibraryStore.getState().executeQuery(...)

// Instead of exposing `searchTerm` + `setSearchTerm`
const searchTerm = useLibraryStore(state => state.searchTerm);
const updateSearch = useLibraryStore(state => state.actions.updateSearch);
```

Consider splitting into multiple stores or using selectors.

---

### Unify error handling patterns

**Files**: Throughout frontend

Current inconsistency:
- `SetupForm`: calls `store.setError()`
- `DownloadButton`: catches and calls `store.setError()`
- `BookModal`: silently swallows cover fetch errors
- Various: `console.error()` only

**Solution**:
1. Create error handling strategy (which errors show to users vs log only)
2. Create `ErrorService` or use React Error Boundary
3. Document pattern in AGENTS.md

---

## Priority 3: Code Quality

### Create OfflineService for network status

**Files**: Multiple `navigator.onLine` checks scattered

**Solution**: Create service that:
- Tracks online/offline status
- Emits events on status change
- Provides consistent offline handling

---

### Add type safety for library path

**Files**: Throughout - `libraryPath` is a plain string everywhere

**Solution**: Consider branded type or wrapper:
```typescript
type LibraryPath = string & { readonly brand: unique symbol };
function createLibraryPath(path: string): LibraryPath;
```

Low priority - current approach works, just less type-safe.

---

### Consolidate pagination logic

**Files**: `libraryStore.ts`, `Library.tsx`, `lib/sql.ts`

Pagination spread across:
- Store: `currentPage`, `perPage`
- Component: `totalPages` calculation
- SQL: pagination in query

**Solution**: Create pagination utility or keep in one place.

---

## Completed

### Extract path normalization utility

**Files**: `app.py` (3 places), `dropbox_api.py` (2 places)

Added `normalize_library_path()` function to `dropbox_api.py` and replaced all 5 instances of duplicated normalization logic with calls to this function.

---

## Notes

- Backend architecture (app.py ↔ dropbox_api.py) is already well-separated
- Frontend folder structure is good; issues are in data flow and responsibilities
- AGENTS.md covers practical development tasks well
- This document tracks structural improvements, not feature work
